with the skeleton animated your next
task is to choose the bones that will be
used for skinning remember that some
bones such as end bones or nobs as well
as bones used to blend FK ni k are not
required for the skinning process start
by selecting all the bones in the
viewport holding the Alt key down click
on the nut bones to deselect them this
includes the two knobs for the feet the
ten finger knobs the two hand knobs as
well as the head knob and the pelvis
knob
next press H to open the select from
scene dialog in the Select menu make
sure the Select children option is
disabled locate the FK ni K chains the
ones for the right side of the skeleton
are easy to find at the very bottom of
the dialog hold ctrl down and deselect
the FK ni K chains now locate the left
side f ki K chains there should be
halfway down the list deselect them as
well and click OK to exit the dialog now
you have the bones you need to affect
the skinning modifier to make that
selection easier create a selection set
of the selected bones name it skin bones
and press Enter click anywhere in the
viewport to deselect the bones selecting
them again is easier now that you have a
selection set for that purpose using the
layer toolbar unfreeze the mesh layer
select the zombie mesh and press alt X
to disable x-ray mode you're ready to
start skinning with the mesh selected
apply a skin modifier click the add
bones button and in the select bonds
dialog that appears select the skin
bones selection set you created a moment
ago this is much easier than picking
individual bones from a hierarchy list
click select to exit the dialog you can
test the animation it's fine for a first
pass but it obviously
requires a lot of work before it becomes
even acceptable skinning is an important
part of rigging and skinning in
particular is an art form different
riggers work in different ways when it
comes to skinning a model some use
envelopes where they adjust capsule like
gizmos to control how a bone affects its
surroundings others use paint weights to
control how the mesh deforms although
paint weights is more commonly used with
meshes of high counts with low poly
models riggers often work at a vertex
level it's a technique that gives you
the most flexibility and the best
control it is the method you will be
using here to that effect enable the
vertices option this would make it
possible to select vertices and weight
them individually also and because you
won't be using envelopes expand the
display rollout and enable show no
envelopes in the advanced parameters
rollout notice the bone effect limit
option this is where you define how many
bones ultimately affect a given vertex
the default is set to 20 but you seldom
need a higher value than 3 or 4 in fact
some game engines would not allow for
more than 4 bones to affect the given
vertex set the bone effect limit value
to 4 as for the rest of the options and
the skin modifier you'll explore the
ones you need as you go along you will
start from the bottom up starting with
the left toe and moving up the left foot
and ultimately the rest of the leg zoom
in on the left foot if you are in edit
envelope mode you can disable it now to
keep things simple as you are just
starting you will isolate the left foot
to make it easier to work on go down the
stack to editable poly element level and
select the left foot if soft selection
mode is enabled disable it now in the
edit geometry rollout click hide
unselected
exit element mode then go back up the
stack to the skin modifier zoom in and
adjust the view to get a better look at
the foot in the next movie you adjust
the skinning of the foot
you